Governance overview (#28)
stoplightio/platform-docs: docs/2.-governance/e.getting-started-with-api-governance.md

---
tags: [Governance]
---

# Getting started with API Governance

> [API Governance]() programs are being undertaken across companies of all shapes and sizes, but that's not to say that all of them achieve their desired objectives. It is important to have a well-planned API governance initiative complemented by the right tools and inclusion of collaborators across the organization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[API governance](TODO) is being undertaken across companies of all shapes and sizes, but that's not to say that all of them achieve their desired objectives. Some API governance efforts try to standardize too much too soon, and create overly restrictive rules which block legitimiate work. They can become a bottleneck, which API development teams will then try to circumnavigate instead of a benefit to them. This can usually be solved via cooperation with collaborators from across the organization, surveying them to find and solve legitimate problems that do not slow developers down. 
```

- Make an organization chart identifying stakeholders across the organization
- Understand API roadmap in terms of internal, partner and external services
- Identify issues faced by development teams
- Gather feedback from API consumers
- Identify key goals e.g. Autonomy, Agility, Control

#### Find your APIs

A recurring problem that is seen in rapidly growing API programs is not knowing where your APIs are. Not knowing what services exist or what their current status leads to duplication, inconsistencies and unanticipated disruptions. *You can't fix what you don't know is broken*. 

Create an inventory of your existing APIs. You can use the platform to [add your projects]() from version control or other file systems. Creating this central view is necessary for achieving your governance goals. It's important to get as many of the APIs as you can across your organization into this inventory. 

#### Explore your landscape

With your inventory of APIs ready, you can start gauging the current status of your API landscape. Stoplight's Platform makes it easy to visualize and rationalize your APIs. After [adding your projects]() to the Explorer you can discover:

- Existing APIs

> - API contracts and the formats being used e.g OAS3, Postman, RAML

Reviewer: Nitpick here but we call them API Descriptions (Description Document is the openapi.yaml and and Description Format is OAS).

To end users we generally talk about OpenAPI, not OAS. Just easier to understand and something something SEO.
 https://github.com/openapi-contrib/glossary
```suggestion
- API descriptions and the description formats being used e.g OpenAPI v3 Postman, RAML
```

- Dependencies between endpoints, models, and articles in your organization
- State of documentation for different APIs
- Security policies being used 
- Changelogs for different versions of APIs and Schemas 

We recommend sharing this information with stakeholders using the Explorer. This information would come in handy in making governance decisions. Learn more about exploring your API landscape [here]()

#### Engage stakeholders

> One of the biggest reasons for inconsistency across your API program stems from teams working in silos. Governance initiatives are most effective when all stakeholders are on board. [Adding team members]() like developers, technical writers, product managers, and business leaders into your Stoplight Platform would give them visibility to your APIs and guidelines while bridging the gap between different stakeholders. Having everyone on the same page makes your API program effective and valuable. 

Reviewer: It's probably "into the Stoplight Platform" or more specifically probably "into your Stoplight workspace"

> #### Enforce writing API descriptions

Reviewer: If possible it'd be great to talk about incentivizing instead of enforcing, or perhaps mention both. At WeWork I was using carrots and sticks: oh you want an SDK but dont wanna write docs? Well, if you write me this OpenAPI you'll get an SDK for free. Theeeere you go.

While the goal is to have one set of enterprise-wide API governance rules, your learnings from previous steps would help you take a prudent step-by-step approach to this. Gauging what your teams are already doing, start converging them on a set of rules. You can start with a combination of mandatory rules and optional guidelines to help folks make better decisions. 

Examples of rules that you can apply:

- Naming conventions
- Mandatory descriptions for all artifacts
- Mandatory security for all paths
- Only use a type of OAuth as the security scheme

Learn more about [Style Guides]().

#### Create a Design Library

Often developers without access to existing resources end up creating duplicate code that leads to inconsistencies and maintenance nightmares. You need to identify reusable design components and put them in a central repository. You can do this by [creating a design library] in the Stoplight Platform. This can then be used in APIs across your organization.   

#### Enable API discovery

> As the number of APIs in your portfolio grow folks need to have an easy way to discover your APIs. You should publish your APIs at a central hub with search capabilities for your API consumers.

Reviewer: Let's avoid using the term "hub" unless we're talking about Hubs, the hosted documentation where people can group multiple docs together. I dn't think that's this this time.

Author: I believe Hubs would fit here. As a champion, wouldn't I be the one creating or evangelizing about a central place for people to publish their documentation? The actual documentation would be done by the API teams.

---
tags: [governance]
---

# Get Started with API Governance

> [API governance](a.overview.md) is being undertaken across companies of all shapes and sizes, but that's not to say that all of them achieve their desired objectives. Some API governance efforts try to standardize too much too soon and create overly restrictive rules which block legitimate work. They can become a bottleneck, which API development teams will then try to circumnavigate instead of a benefit to them. This can usually be solved via cooperation with collaborators from across the organization, surveying them to find and solve legitimate problems that do not slow developers down. 

Reviewer: Sounds a bit broken, but I probably wrote it. Maybe... 

> which API development teams try to circumnavigate, instead of being something that benefits them

Author: Haha, you did :D I'll make it a little clearer

To build a successful API governance program, thinking about governance in the right context is paramount. There's no single strategy that fits all circumstances and use-cases. Governance is often a balancing act and it's wise to take a light step-by-step approach. Stoplight's platform arms you with the tooling to help you at each stage of your initiative. 

While a lot of decisions would be taken in the context of your organization, these pointers can help you craft and execute your plan.

#### Identify Goals

> Before diving into the steps that you need to take to fuel governance in your organization, it's important to map out your API program's objectives and issues. This could be done by conducting interviews with leaders and stakeholders in the API lifecycle. You could:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before diving into governance in your organization, it's important to map out your API program's objectives and issues. This could be done by conducting interviews with leaders and stakeholders in the API lifecycle. You could:
```

- Make an organization chart identifying stakeholders across the organization
- Understand the API roadmap in terms of internal, partner and external services
- Identify issues faced by development teams
- Gather feedback from API consumers
- Identify key goals, e.g., autonomy, agility, control

#### Find Your APIs

A recurring problem that is seen in rapidly growing API programs is not knowing where your APIs are. Not knowing what services exist or what their current status is leads to duplication, inconsistencies and unanticipated disruptions. *You can't fix what you don't know is broken*. 

> Create an inventory of your existing APIs. You can use the platform to [add your projects]<!--To-Do: Add link-->() from version control or other file systems. Creating this central view is necessary for achieving your governance goals. It's important to get as many of the APIs as you can across your organization into this inventory. 

Reviewer: We talk about "API platform" as in... API Ecosystem. We also then talk about "the platform" as in Stoplight Platform. 

Maybe we need a style guide? Lets stick with "API ecosystem" and "Stoplight Platform" ?

#### Explore Your Landscape

> With your inventory of APIs ready, you can start gauging the current status of your API landscape. Stoplight's Platform makes it easy to visualize and rationalize your APIs. After [adding your projects]<!--To-Do: Add link-->() to the Explorer you can discover:

Reviewer: Stoplight's Platform and Stoplight Platform is also inconsistent.

- Existing APIs

> - API descriptions and the description formats being used, e.g, OpenAPI v3, Postman, RAML

Reviewer: Let's not mention RAML as we don't really support it. We're being general here, but RAML isnt really a thing these days so theres not much reason to mention it anyway.

- Dependencies between endpoints, models, and articles in your organization
- State of documentation for different APIs
- Security policies being used 
- Changelogs for different versions of APIs and Schemas 

We recommend sharing this information with stakeholders using the Explorer. This information would come in handy in making governance decisions. Learn more about exploring your API landscape [here]<!--To-Do: Add link-->()

#### Engage Stakeholders

> One of the biggest reasons for inconsistency across your API program stems from teams working in silos. Governance initiatives are most effective when all stakeholders are on board. [Adding team members]<!--To-Do: Add link-->() like developers, technical writers, product managers, and business leaders into your Stoplight workspace would give them visibility to your APIs and guidelines while bridging the gap between different stakeholders. Having everyone on the same page makes your API program effective and valuable. 

Reviewer: Is "working in silos" an idiom that most people will understand? It might need a little explainer. 
```suggestion
One of the biggest reasons for inconsistency across your API program stems from teams working in silos, not communicating with each other or reviewing each others work. Governance initiatives are most effective when all stakeholders are on board. [Adding team members]<!--To-Do: Add link-->() like developers, technical writers, product managers, and business leaders into your Stoplight workspace would give them visibility to your APIs and guidelines while bridging the gap between different stakeholders. Having everyone on the same page makes your API program effective and valuable. 
```

#### Implement Versioning

APIs often need modifications or sometimes deprecating, and versioning is therefore crucial. It's important to apply your governance rules to ALL the versions, to ensure they're all standardized and properly documented. You can use Explorer to visualize changes between different versions, helping you manage breaking changes.

#### Automate Your Governance Process

Having to rely on your teams to manually apply your API governance rules is no fun for anyone, and not feasible when you're developing APIs at scale. Ensure your API governance rules are met before an API can be deployed. Deploying APIs with governance violations even internally is not recommended.

Stoplight Platform makes this easy along the lifecycle using:

> - Automatic Style Guides

Reviewer: Added some stuff for this in #34 so lets link to that?

- Contract Testing powered by automatic mock servers

#### Analyze and Improve

Governance is an ongoing initiative. Explorer provides you with a bird's eye view of your landscape that can help you identify gaps and gauge improvements. As you learn from your experiences and add to your initiatives, it helps to:

- Get more stakeholders on board
- Evangelize about your APIs and governance initiatives 

> - Gather feedback

Reviewer: Shall we add a little "Governance module coming soon..." so that people reading about governance arent totally confused about how to actually do stuff?

Author: When it comes to automatic style guidelines i.e. the quality module?

Reviewer: Yeah whenever we say something about "automated style guides" we can link to https://github.com/stoplightio/platform-docs/blob/master/docs/2.-governance/e.style-guides.md 

but below this section I thought we could expand a little, explaining that a further Quality module was coming soon to help with all of this governance stuff.

Author: Alright. Makes sense. I have added to do links to syle guides everywhere. I'll check once again if I missed it

#### Enable API Discovery

As the number of APIs in your portfolio grows, folks need to have an easy way to discover your APIs. To enable this, you should make a catalog of APIs with up to date documentation. 

Using the Stoplight platform you can:

- [Create a Documentation Hub]<!--To-Do: Add link-->() where teams can publish their APIs for internal and external consumption.
- Add team members to your workspace to help them keep a track of dependencies using Explorer. 

#### Promote Design-first for New APIs

> While enforcing API descriptions for your existing APIs is helpful, the true power of API descriptions is realized by following an [API Design-first]<!--To-Do: Add link-->() policy. Designing your APIs before development helps you get quick feedback, develop in parallel and test automatically. Help your architects get started with a new API design by sharing this [guide]<!--To-Do: Add link-->(). 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to clarify what "develop in parallel" means here; e.g., developing different components (frontend/backend) that rely on the same API. Maybe even mention mocks.

Author: It's covered in detail in the overview section of the design, which will be linked here. Here we're just looking to signify it's importance to the person leading the governance initiative. Do you think we should go into the details here?

Reviewer 2: Since this comes before the design introduction, it may be helpful to elaborate just a little. There are connections between API design and API governance and people need to be convinced both are important, but since they are covered in this order a bit of redundancy may help bring the point accross.

Author: Makes sense. I’ll add a little more detail ✅
